## Diversity

I don't care if this applies to women, blacks 1, asians, native americans, jews, muslims, christians, white, men, gay, straight, or any creed or color. Diversity for the sake of diversity is not equal opportunity. It just isn't. Affirmative action and inclusion to meet a sense of diversity may *accomplish that end*, but it is equal opportunity on it's own. 

One of the problems I have with diversity "quotas" is that the mechanism assumed to achieve equal opportunity depends on a "role-model" behavior. The theory is that if you are aware of your own identity, and you see others whom you identify as having a similar or same identity, that this is the enabling exposure that tells you that you can do what they do. And it's true to a very real extent! Take for example, the first woman astronaut charged a lot of little girls with the idea that they can be spacewomen too! And the first black baseball player gave young black boys dreams of playing professionally! This is fantastic, and these are the stories we love to hear, but they aren't what is *necessary* for us to acheive equal opportunity.

We miss the point in a lot of these cases. We think its about becoming an astronaut or being a pro baseball player, when in fact what we see instead is a woman breaking into the boys club and black athletes integrating with white athletes. These events are characterized not by the achievements of the individuals, but the cultural norms they shatter. I argue that is what creates equal opportunity. Not the 'first people' but the 'first event'. 

When Sally Ride went up into space, women didn't suddenly add Astronaut to their dreams, they added every job in which our culture had said "No, that's a man's job." Girls now knew they can break that barrier. Jackie Robinson taught blacks that they can be recognized, and be in the forefront. They now can see more past their identity to pursue their dreams. 

Of course, no single instance will change it overnight. Racism and sexism are still here today. We do cherish the moment's of the 'first people' as they have the biggest single impact, but it is the persistance of example of breaking the barriers that defeats prejudice and creates equal opportunity.




1 I prefer the use of 'black' because its more accurate in terms of racial discussion. Not all black people are African, nor are they all American. What sense does it make to call a black Canadian citizen 'African-American'?? Especially when racism doesn't seem to give a damn where they are from or their nationality. Hell, most actual African-American's have more American blood and history in them than the racists that think they don't belong in "White America."
